Well,
the question is there, who is the thing? That's the
lumberman. Or the... lumberman's not a good term
anymore. Lumberman's not really descriptive of
anything anymore. Yeah, really, it's forest
products industries. Yeah, exactly. Is there a
good term to call the men who are involved in forest
products industries? We used to be able to call
them lumbermen, but now what could we call them?
It's just the forest industry. $299.
Oh, what I had in mind there is that in the tree
improvement program, Ernest Curse made a great
contribution in that he sold or helped me to sell
this tree improvement program, which would have
been difficult to do if I had not had his
endorsement and personal involvement.
And this is the first time He's been mentioned as
being important in forestry. Let me get you
something. OK. All right. Now, I have one other
item, and that is that
in your discussion of the nursery at At Magnolia
Springs, you just said that it was discontinued,
but there is an important...
I
am searching for a word. Modification? Not a
modification, an important item, yes. The
seedling production was discontinued, and as a
nursery per se, there was discontinuation. But
the entire nursery area eventually became a seed
orchard, which is the most important step or an
extremely important step in the whole tree
improvement program. First, the first step is to
select the trees from which you want progeny, then
to produce the progeny on a mass basis. And from
that progeny then, make selections for
individuals that you want to use for producing
cones from which you will then have a true line to
produce progeny with those characteristics. And
that is done in the seed orchards. Are you with me?
Yeah, I'm with you. OK. I know what was done there.
That's the largest seed orchard that the Texas
Forest Service has today, at Magnolia Springs.
OK. Now, the only thing, and I'm not sure I pointed
it out in here, the reason that the Magnolia Seeds
nursery went out of business was the decline in
requests for seedlings? No. discontinuation of
the federal program whereby the soil bank program
went out of existence and that reduced the demand
naturally then for tree seedlings. I have a
question. Is that all you have for me? Now, I have a
question. From the point where you came in and
after having read this about Anderson, and what
went on with Anderson and the movements that were
taking place shortly before you came in to bust up
the Forest Service. I don't have a transition, and
it's readily apparent in here, between you and
Anderson. Here is a thing going on in which you have
a buildup of pressure to break up the Forest
Service. You come in, and I never say another word
about it after that, because I don't know what
happened. Did it just go away on its own? Yeah,
nobody ever told me about it. Well, to me, I see two
things happening, or at least I see one thing
happening. Either Anderson blew up the
importance of this more than it was, whether it was
a pipe dream that never would have taken place,
or... No, I don't think it was blown up. I'll tell
you... I got just a little bit of this from Don
Lewis. Only indirectly, not directly. But there
was always the feeling on the part of Don Lewis, I
felt that, well, the Texas Forest Service was an
interoperable As
a state
entity. I
didn't pick up that there was any sudden cutoff.
And I don't think it's necessary to try to put in
there any transition because I can't recall that
Andy ever told me anything about it. It's just very
strange to me that it seems like in talking to him
this was so very important that he... He seems to
want to say to me that I stopped it myself by making
phone calls all over the place. That's implied,
Gary. But I don't know. I don't do. Again, it is
possible the way things were, that he called
Kurth, and he says he called Kurth, and Kurth
called Gilchrist, and that was the end of it. I
didn't know. It would be nice to know that. We'll
never know. Were there any other moves during your
time to bust up the Foreign Service? Serious
attempts. No. They might have been going on, but I
wasn't. You weren't aware. Always the last. I'm
sure I missed a lot of things. Kramer said he knew of
some, but evidently didn't get involved in it. He
just knew about it. Well, you know, Kramer and
Bruce Miles has that quality, too, of
hearing about things that somehow I never heard
about. I think they used to make it a point trying to
keep up with these things. I didn't. Hell, I
figured this was the thing to do, and I'll go ahead
and do it. I wouldn't necessarily worry about
something like that unless, when I start to see the
reports in writing and start seeing them going to
committees who have the power to make that
decision. This could have happened at that point
in time when Gilchrist was making those changes in
47 and 48. He could very well have done it. Anything
later, I don't know. I haven't seen anything in
writing. I see state reports that continue every,
oh, five or six years. It seems like the state
issues a new report saying we ought to combine
these agencies. It just goes on and on, ad
infinitum, ad nauseum, and nothing is ever done
about it. But this, I think, there was a definite
threat. I think so. I think so. Whether Anderson,
as he said, stopped it or it died at the lack of
momentum. Well, he had some help in... What the
hell is his name? It's all over the Forest Products
Lab. Oh, yeah. Gene. I should know better than you,
but after all, I'm almost 80 years old. Yeah, well,
I can't even remember what his name is, but that's,
listen, I appreciate this. Can you think? Well,
most of it's pretty picky, except for the USL that
that nursery down there at the Magnolia Springs
and the seed orchards. That needs to be beefed up
considerably. What's missing in here? Well, as
you pointed out yourself, it's a latter part of
this that you don't have details in there that you
had in the beginning. I don't know how in the world
you want to go about getting them. I don't think
I'll get them. And I have to be very careful. I'm
hesitant to deal with very much about living
people. I can understand that. They have a
tendency to come back and get you if they don't like
it. And some people will not view this as an
academic exercise. No. It's personal. Well, if
you're going to publish it. Yeah, then it's no
longer an academic exercise. And you want to be
right. You want it to be correct. Hopefully, yes.
And without the information, you hesitate to do
any interpretation. Because you don't have
enough facts, you may be wrong, completely wrong.
Yeah, I think you're starting to, you would be
treading on sensitive ground there if you tried to
fill in details. Well, I'm not sure it's possible.
Because nobody, for one, nobody writes letters
like they used to. And if it's done on the
telephone, that's sure not recorded. And if it's
done in a meeting, I sure don't have it. So it just
doesn't exist anymore. I know Kramer did a hell of a
lot more telephoning than I ever did. Well, I had
the feeling that he purposely at some point
decided he didn't want to leave a lot of
information around. Although I can't imagine why
on earth he would. I can't imagine that this is not a
slam to the forest service, but I can imagine what
they're doing that is so earth-shakingly
important that it bears being classified. Hmm.
They're a good little agency. Well, sir, I
appreciate this. There are not many people that
would torture themselves in reading that. Well, I
was interested. As I said, the part that opened my
eyes was your treatment of the dean here and his
maneuvering, because I had never heard of that
before. Well, it's not earth-shakingly
important. No, it's just an interesting piece of
information. Bruce liked it. He read it and
thought it was fairly interesting. He said he
hoped I would get it published because he wanted to
get enough copies spread around. He wanted his
people to read it, especially the new people
coming in. Oh, yeah, I think they should. Because I
think it means something, because I'm not sure
what the challenge is today to them. There are
challenges, I'm sure, within forestry. But I'm
not sure about the challenges of being, you know,
just outright destroyed at any moment or the
struggle for a little bit. I mean, it's just such
hard work for me to get somebody. And maybe he
thought that it would be useful to them to know
that, you know, people went ahead and they
struggled. You know, you're just in a long
succession of people who went hard. I got some
satisfaction out of the way that you pointed out in
there that, I did a hell of a lot of groundwork in the
organization, which Kramer and Miles had been
able to capitalize on. Oh, sure. I think so. I had to
do a lot of work, which they didn't have to go
through because the whole thing was structurally
pretty well established. Oh, I think so. I think
they capitalized on it. Well, I certainly
appreciate it. Well, you're welcome. And I want to
keep at it. well I hope you did publish well I hope so
too and when I do I'll send you a copy don't forget
where I am there you don't have to call me I've got a
bunch of loosers around Johnson County as I recall
most of them are out around Rock King and Sandblad
we live in Pound but I want to buy a new one can I
borrow your key oh We have thousands of these
things.
This is the index.
They have a lot of shortcomings, too.
Well, I found this when we just proved it raw about
three years ago. Yes, sir.